Perpendicular flap (IGA solid participant G+Smo) (#603)
precice/tutorials: perpendicular-flap-stress/README.md

Reviewer: Trying to run this, I get, in the beginning, on the Fluid:

```
---[precice]  Automatic RBF mapping alias from mesh "Solid-Mesh" to mesh "Fluid-Mesh" in "read" direction resolves to "partition-of-unity RBF" .
---[precice]  Computing "partition-of-unity RBF" mapping from mesh "Solid-Mesh" to mesh "Fluid-Mesh" in "read" direction.
---[precice] ERROR:  The interpolation matrix of the RBF mapping from mesh "Solid-Mesh" to mesh "Fluid-Mesh" is not invertable. This means that the mapping problem is not well-posed. Please check if your coupling meshes are correct (e.g. no vertices are duplicated) or reconfigure your basis-function (e.g. reduce the support-radius).
```

and the Solid waits with:

```
Solving timestep 0...
	It. |R|/|R0|         |dU|/|U0|        
	0   0                0                
Finished
---[precice]  relative convergence measure: relative two-norm diff of data "Displacement" = inf, limit = 5.00e-03, normalization = 0.00e+00, conv = true
---[precice]  relative convergence measure: relative two-norm diff of data "Stress" = inf, limit = 5.00e-03, normalization = 0.00e+00, conv = true
---[precice]  All converged
---[precice] WARNING:  The coupling residual equals almost zero. There is maybe something wrong in your adapter. Maybe you always write the same data or you call advance without providing new data first or you do not use available read data. Or you just converge much further than actually necessary.
---[precice] WARNING:  The IQN matrix has no columns.
---[precice]  Time window completed
---[precice]  Mapping "Stress" for t=0.01 from "Fluid-Mesh" to "Solid-Mesh"
---[precice]  iteration: 1 of 50 (min 1), time-window: 2, time: 0.01 of 5, time-window-size: 0.01, max-time-step-size: 0.01, ongoing: yes, time-window-complete: yes, write-iteration-checkpoint 
```

Am I missing something?

Author: Hi Makis, 
Thanks for testing! I tested this PR with a clean clone. I did not run into this problem. 

My procedure is:
- cloned this pr
- cloned a clean G+Smo 
   - in the build folder of G+Smo, I included submodule: gsPreCICE;gsKLShell;gsElasticity;gsStructuralAnalysis
   - make perpendicular-flap-vertex-gismo
   - sudo make install perpendicular-flap-vertex-gismo
- switched back to the pr, and run the run.sh script in fluid-openfoam and solid-gismo

I am able to run this example following these steps and I could not replicate the issue here.

Reviewer: I tried again, after pulling the latest state of this branch and of Gismo:

- Tutorials `perpendicular-flap-gismo-elasticity-stress` Mar 24 (bd0610f1174fb5658043141141b332886348b98d)
- Gismo `stable` Mar 23 (390eaf68de077ecddb5ae9f899fa88bf8a84a244)
- preCICE `develop` Mar 21 (6c1b8590c1895502443901f73bdde71a53d776f2) with `PRECICE_FEATURE_PETSC_MAPPING    ON` and `PRECICE_FEATURE_GINKGO_MAPPING   OFF`
- OpenFOAM v2406
- OpenFOAM adapter `develop` Mar 21 (fc16b305bd43f455b9ce044acadd42c56b52fdf4)
- Running on my laptop: Ubuntu 22.04, Eigen 3.4.0, PETSc 3.15.

Same error.

Reviewer: @Crazy-Rich-Meghan which state of preCICE are you using? I can try checking with that, to exclude any bugs in preCICE `develop`.

Reviewer 2: It worked for me previously, but I am now trying to mimic @MakisH 's setup.

I, however, get an error when trying to build that version of gismo:

```
Building CXX object optional/gsElasticity/CMakeFiles/gsElasticity.dir/gsBiharmonicAssembler_.cpp.o
In file included from /home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/optional/gsElasticity/gsBaseAssembler.h:17,
                 from /home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/optional/gsElasticity/gsBiharmonicAssembler.h:17,
                 from /home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/optional/gsElasticity/gsBiharmonicAssembler_.cpp:3:
/home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/src/gsAssembler/gsAssembler.h: In instantiation of ‘void gismo::gsAssembler<T>::apply(ElementVisitor&, size_t, gismo::boxSide) [with ElementVisitor = gismo::gsVisitorBiharmonicMixed<double>; T = double; size_t = long unsigned int]’:
/home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/src/gsAssembler/gsAssembler.h:462:13:   required from ‘void gismo::gsAssembler<T>::push(const ElementVisitor&) [with ElementVisitor = gismo::gsVisitorBiharmonicMixed<double>; T = double]’
/home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/optional/gsElasticity/gsBiharmonicAssembler.hpp:93:54:   required from ‘void gismo::gsBiharmonicAssembler<T>::assemble(bool) [with T = double]’
/home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/optional/gsElasticity/gsBiharmonicAssembler_.cpp:8:25:   required from here
/home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/src/gsAssembler/gsAssembler.h:721:27: error: cannot convert ‘gismo::gsBasis<double>::domainIter’ {aka ‘gismo::gsDomainIteratorWrapper<double>’} to ‘gismo::gsDomainIterator<double>&’
  721 |         visitor_.assemble(domIt, quWeights);
      |                           ^~~~~
      |                           |
      |                           gismo::gsBasis<double>::domainIter {aka gismo::gsDomainIteratorWrapper<double>}
In file included from /home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/optional/gsElasticity/gsBiharmonicAssembler.hpp:20,
                 from /home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/optional/gsElasticity/gsBiharmonicAssembler_.cpp:4:
/home/uekermbn/Repos/gismo/optional/gsElasticity/gsVisitorBiharmonicMixed.h:74:48: note:   initializing argument 1 of ‘void gismo::gsVisitorBiharmonicMixed<T>::assemble(gismo::gsDomainIterator<T>&, const gismo::gsVector<T>&) [with T = double]’
   74 |     inline void assemble(gsDomainIterator<T> & element,
      |                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^~~~~~~
```

Reviewer 3: @uekerman, did you pull inside `gismo/optional/gsElasticity`?

Reviewer: I did not, and I have the `master` branch there (d6ccb6f512579a077b6e549191963d6696f66a61, Feb 17).

Reviewer 3: @MakisH that one should be the right one that would fix the error that @uekerman encounters

Reviewer 2: @hverhelst Thanks for the quick reaction. I wasn't aware that this is necessary. I now used a fresh clone again.

And indeed I also run into the same problem as @MakisH 

- Tutorials: same as @‌MakisH
- Gismo: same as @‌MakisH
- preCICE develop Mar 24 (5909d6548) (PETSc off), almost the same as @‌MakisH
- OpenFOAM v2212
- OpenFOAM adapter v1.3.1
- Ubuntu 20.04, Eigen 3.4.0

Reviewer 3: Okay, that's somehow good. I think @Crazy-Rich-Meghan is on it right now. I'll wait for her response.

Reviewer 2: I get a similar problem with preCICE v3.1.2

```
---[precice] ERROR:  The interpolation matrix of the RBF mapping from mesh "Solid-Mesh" to mesh "Fluid-Mesh" is not invertable. This means that the mapping problem is not well-posed. Please check if your coupling meshes are correct (e.g. no vertices are duplicated) or reconfigure your basis-function (e.g. reduce the support-radius).
```

Reviewer 2: Visualizing the coupling mesh of G+Smo looks strange. I get a volume mesh, not a surface mesh. The tip of the flap:

![Screenshot from 2025-03-24 13-18-30](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a29364e6-2739-47fd-86f6-c63907b6c84d)

Reviewer 2: And it is a 3D mesh, so duplicated vertices for a mapping in 2D, which explains the error.

@hverhelst Did you change anything in the adapter in this direction recently?

Reviewer: With the latest state of the stable branch of the G+smo adapter (9e567), the case run fine, and the results look correct! :tada:

Note that I had to do a clean build (delete the complete `build/` directory and update all `optional/` modules).

> ---
> title: Perpendicular flap with stresses
> keywords: G+Smo, fluid-structure interaction, FSI, OpenFOAM
> summary: This tutorial is a modified version of the “perpendicular flap” tutorial using stresses instead of forces.
> 
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
title: Perpendicular flap with stresses
permalink: tutorials-perpendicular-flap-stresses.html
keywords: G+Smo, fluid-structure interaction, FSI, OpenFOAM
summary: This tutorial is a modified version of the “perpendicular flap” tutorial using stresses instead of forces.
---
```

The tutorials sidebar on the website also needs to be extended accordingly, to add it as a subcase of the perpendicular flap. See the flow-over-heated-plate as an example.

## Configuration

preCICE configuration (image generated using the [precice-config-visualizer](https://precice.org/tooling-config-visualization.html)):

![preCICE configuration visualization](images/tutorials-perpendicular-flap-stress-precice-config.png)

## Available solvers

Fluid participant:

* OpenFOAM (pimpleFoam). In case you are using a very old OpenFOAM version, you will need to adjust the solver to `pimpleDyMFoam` in the `Fluid/system/controlDict` file. For more information, have a look at the [OpenFOAM adapter documentation](https://precice.org/adapter-openfoam-overview.html).

Solid participant:

* G+Smo (perpendicular-flap-vertex-gismo). For more information, have a look at the [G+Smo adapter documentation](https://precice.org/adapter-gismo-overview.html).

> ## Running the Simulation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Running the simulation
```

> Open two separate terminals and start the desired fluid and solid participant by calling the respective run script `run.sh` located in the participant directory. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open two separate terminals and start the desired fluid and solid participants by calling the respective run scripts `run.sh` located in the participants' directories. For example:
```

```bash
cd fluid-openfoam
./run.sh
```

and

```bash
cd solid-gismo
./run.sh
```

## Post-processing

On the OpenFOAM side, you can open the `.foam` file with ParaView, or create VTK files with `foamToVTK`.

On the G+Smo side, you can open the `.pvd` file located in the `solid-gismo/output` folder using ParaView. If you prefer not to plot the simulation, simply edit the `run.sh` script and remove the  `--plot` option.

As we defined a watchpoint on the 'Solid' participant at the flap tip (see `precice-config.xml`), we can plot it with gnuplot using the script `plot-displacement.sh.` You need to specify the directory of the selected solid participant as a command line argument, so that the script can pick-up the desired watchpoint file, e.g. `plot-displacement.sh solid-gismo`. The resulting graph shows the x displacement of the flap tip. You can modify the script to plot the force instead.

> ![Flap watchpoint](images/tutorials-perpendicular-flap-stress-displacement-watchpoint.png)

Reviewer 2: I think, we don't need to show all other variants here. One non-linear one (e.g. deal.II) could be enough.
And we need a brief sentence that we have not yet found the reason for the difference.

Reviewer: I think still open here is only this part:

> we need a brief sentence that we have not yet found the reason for the difference.

since deal.II still shows a small difference. Or was it larger before?

Author: > I think still open here is only this part:
> 
> > we need a brief sentence that we have not yet found the reason for the difference.
> 
> since deal.II still shows a small difference. Or was it larger before?

The difference was larger before, we made some changes to fix it and now the gap is smaller. One possible explanation is that we may be using different assumptions regarding plane stress vs plane strain.

Reviewer 2: let's ignore this for the moment. not worth the hassle to dig even deeper IMO

## Configuration

preCICE configuration (image generated using the [precice-config-visualizer](https://precice.org/tooling-config-visualization.html)):

![preCICE configuration visualization](images/tutorials-perpendicular-flap-stress-precice-config.png)

## Available solvers

Fluid participant:

* OpenFOAM (pimpleFoam). In case you are using a very old OpenFOAM version, you will need to adjust the solver to `pimpleDyMFoam` in the `Fluid/system/controlDict` file. For more information, have a look at the [OpenFOAM adapter documentation](https://precice.org/adapter-openfoam-overview.html).

Solid participant:

* G+Smo. For more information, have a look at the [G+Smo adapter documentation](https://precice.org/adapter-gismo-overview.html).

## Running the Simulation

Open two separate terminals and start the desired fluid and solid participant by calling the respective run script `run.sh` located in the participant directory. For example:

```bash
cd fluid-openfoam
./run.sh
```

and

```bash
cd solid-gismo
./run.sh

> ```

Reviewer 2: We could explain here how different variants could be run.

Reviewer 2: Discussed with @Crazy-Rich-Meghan and @hverhelst:
The vision of the adapter is to have one configurable solver for all preCICE-coupled applications. Let's keep things as they are here and potentially modify in the future.

## Post-processing

On the OpenFOAM side, you can open the `.foam` file with ParaView, or create VTK files with `foamToVTK`.

> TODO: how can we visualize G+Smo results?

Reviewer 2: TODO

As we defined a watchpoint on the 'Solid' participant at the flap tip (see `precice-config.xml`), we can plot it with gnuplot using the script `plot-displacement.sh.` You need to specify the directory of the selected solid participant as a command line argument, so that the script can pick-up the desired watchpoint file, e.g. `plot-displacement.sh solid-gismo`. The resulting graph shows the x displacement of the flap tip. You can modify the script to plot the force instead.

![Flap watchpoint](images/tutorials-perpendicular-flap-stress-displacement-watchpoint.png)

> TODO: add picture

Reviewer 2: Let's add a picture once we are happy with the results.

---

> title: Perpendicular Flap (with IGA Solid Participant Communicating Stress Data)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Perpendicular flap with stresses
```
There is nothing specifically IGA about the setup, right?

Author: Hi! In this setup, there has no IGA-based communication being used, just the typical vertex based communication

Author: I will update examples with other coupling methods under this tutorial in the future!

Reviewer 2: OK, but then let's use the title I suggested. The setup is independent of IGA. Does not mean that we could not add an IGA solver later. OK?

> keywords: G+Smo, perpendicular flap

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
keywords: G+Smo, fluid-structure interaction, FSI, OpenFOAM, IGA
```

> summary: This tutorial demonstrates the isogeometric analysis (IGA) solid solver version of the “Perpendicular Flap” tutorial. It focuses on using G+Smo to handle solid-structure interactions by exchanging stress data during simulations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: This tutorial is a modified version of the “perpendicular flap” tutorial using stresses instead of forces.
```

---

## Overview

> This example demostrates how the Geometry + Simulation Modules (G+Smo) can be utilised through a module-type adapter to couple with other codes using preCICE. G+Smo offers a robust framework for isogeometric analysis (IGA), seamlessly integrating geometric representations with numerical solvers to enable advanced simulations and efficient code coupling.

Reviewer 2: Let's only describe the diff of this case to the original one here. As an example, you could look at https://precice.org/tutorials-partitioned-heat-conduction-direct.html

## Setup
This tutorial uses the same setup as the **original** perpendicular flap example, with the key difference being the switch in the communicated information to stress. 

## Requirements

To run the tutorial you need to install the following components:
- [preCICE](https://precice.org/quickstart.html)
- [G+Smo and gsPreCICE](https://github.com/gismo/gismo)

## Run the tutorial

### G+Smo and preCICE adapter (`gsPreCICE`) Installation
Since `gsPreCICE`is a submodule of G+Smo, you should download G+Smo first:

```
git clone https://github.com/gismo/gismo.git
```

Then, configure G+Smo with `-DGISMO_OPTIONAL=";gsPreCICE"`:

```
cd gismo
mkdir build
cd build
cmake .. -DGISMO_OPTIONAL="<other submodules>;gsPreCICE"
```

This will trigger a download of `gsPreCICE` from GitHub. Once `gsPreCICE` is downloaded, you can compile G+Smo with `gsPreCICE`:

```
make solid-gismo-elasticity -j<number of threads to use>

> ```

Reviewer 3: we can call `make install`  to install it on the system
CC  @uekerman

Reviewer 2: This will go to the adapter docs later, right? 
I would leave this up to the user. "Make it discoverable", for example by installing it to the system.

But the tutorial can assume that the executable is discoverable.

Author: Hi @uekerman, we opened a separate PR for the adapter docs: https://github.com/precice/precice.github.io/pull/482

### Linking the Executable to the preCICE Tutorial Folder

1. Navigate to the directory of the preCICE tutorial (solid-gismo-elasticity).
```
cd <path to your precice tutorials directory>/perpendicular-flap-stress/solid-gismo-elasticity/
```

2. Create the symbolic link between the executable file and the preCICE tutorial folder
```

> ln -sf <path to your G+Smo build folder>/bin/solid-gismo-elasticity ./solid-gismo-elasticity

Reviewer 2: Couldn't we install `solid-gismo-elasticity` instead?
How is this executable related to `solid-gismo-elasticity/solid-gismo.cpp`?

> ```

Reviewer 2: If I remember correctly, the plan was to move these points to an adapter docs eventually, correct? This would be good.

Author: I will make another PR to the adapter docs

> ### Runnning the G+Smo Tutorial

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Runnning the G+Smo Tutorial

```
see also the md linter

Open two terminals and run:
```

> cd solid-gismo-elasticity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cd solid-gismo
```

Author: Hi @uekerman, 

We have another variant of this benchmark uses Kirichhoff-Love shell elememt and will be called `solid-gismo-shell`. While the KL shell variant has been verified for both accuracy and convergence, the implementation is currently hard-coded and needs to be generalized to support other examples.

Reviewer 2: Could we eventually keep both in the same folder and pick them within the run.sh script?

Reviewer 2: I renamed the folder. We can easily call different version from the same run script. Should we?
